### BM25 Retriever

#### What is BM25

1. **BM25 (Best Match 25)** is a term-based ranking model that aims to provide
   accurate and relevant search results by scoring documents based on their term
   frequencies and document lengths.

2. BM25 considers both term frequency (TF) and document length normalization to
   determine the relevance of a document to a given query.

3. It follows the probabilistic retrieval framework, which assumes that relevant
   and non-relevant documents follow different statistical distributions.

```js
`$score(D,Q) = {\sum_{i = 1}^{n} IDF(q_i) . {f(q_i, D).(k_1 + 1)\over f(q_i, D) +k_1 . (1 - b + b.{|D| \over avgdl})}}$`;
```

### Calculation of BM25 Score

1. The BM25 score for document D with respect to query Q is calculated as the
   sum of the scores for individual query terms. The formula for calculating the
   BM25 score is as follows:

```js
_BM25(D, Q) = ∑(IDF(q) . ((TF(q, D) . (k1 + 1)) / (TF(q, D) + k1 . (1 — b + b . (|D| / avgdl)))))_
```

2. In this formula, IDF(q) represents the inverse document frequency of the
   query term q, TF(q, D) denotes the modified term frequency of term q in
   document D, |D| represents the length of document D, and avgdl is the average
   document length in the corpus.

3. Parameters k1 and b are tunable constants that control the impact of term
   frequency saturation and document length normalization, respectively.

### BM25 Retriever by Llama Index

1. BM25 is a Sparse Retrieval technique and basically, it is a keyword search
   technique.

2. This BM25 is well used in search engines like `Elastic-search` and
   `Apache Solr`.

3. Llama Index used this technique and created a retriever. We can import this
   BM25 retriever from _llama_index.retrievers_. We need to install a package to
   use this retriever that is _rank_bm25_ using either pip or poetry.

`from llama_index.retrievers import BM25Retriever`

4. We can create the retriever by passing the index, docstore, or list of nodes.

`BM25Retriever.from_defaults (index, nodes, docstore, tokenizer, similarity_top_k)`

here, 1. index, node, docstore: used to pass the embedding in these ways to the
BM25 Retriever 2. `tokenizer:` type of tokenizer that is used for breaking the
input and output text into more digestible and understandable units for
machines. 3. `similarity_top_k:` this parameter returns the relevant top_k nodes
for the query which is then used to summarize the answer.

### Pros

1. BM25 is the ranking algorithm with simplicity and effectiveness in producing
   relevant search results.
2. This BM25 takes both term frequency and document length normalization, which
   helps address the issue of document length bias.
3. This algorithm can handle large document collections efficiently, making it
   scalable for real-world search scenarios.

### Cons

1. BM25 does not consider the semantic meaning or context of the query and the
   documents, which may result in some bad ranking for certain types of queries.
2. It assumes statistical independence between query terms, which may not hold
   true in some cases where term dependencies exist.
3. It heavily relies on term frequency and document length, potentially
   overlooking other important factors like document structure and relevance
   feedback.
